Gherkin is a domain-specific language used in Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) for defining test scenarios in a natural, human-readable format.
It bridges the communication gap between non-technical stakeholders and developers/testers by allowing you to describe application behavior without diving into technical details.
In Selenium Python, Gherkin is often used in combination with BDD frameworks like Behave or pytest-bdd.

Key Concepts of Gherkin Language:
Feature: A feature file contains a high-level description of the functionality or feature being tested.
Each feature file typically contains one feature and multiple scenarios.
Scenario: A scenario defines a specific behavior or test case for the feature.
It consists of steps to be executed.
Steps: Scenarios are written as a sequence of steps.
These steps use specific keywords (Given, When, Then, And, But) to describe the actions and expected outcomes.
Background: Used to define common preconditions for all scenarios in a feature.
Scenario Outline: A template for scenarios with multiple test data, often used in conjunction with Examples.
Examples: A table that provides different sets of data for executing the same scenario multiple times with different inputs.

Gherkin Syntax in Action:

Feature: Login to the application
  As a user, I want to log in to the application so I can access my dashboard.

  Background:
    Given I am on the login page

  Scenario: Successful login with valid credentials
    Given I enter valid username and password
    When I click the login button
    Then I should see the dashboard

  Scenario: Failed login with invalid credentials
    Given I enter an invalid username and password
    When I click the login button
    Then I should see an error message

  Scenario Outline: Login with multiple credentials
    Given I enter "<username>" and "<password>"
    When I click the login button
    Then I should see "<message>"

    Examples:
      | username   | password | message               |
      | validUser  | validPwd | Dashboard visible      |
      | invalidUser| invalidPwd| Error message displayed|


Gherkin Keywords:
Feature: Describes the functionality or feature under test.
Scenario: A specific test case that tests one aspect of the feature.
Given: Describes the initial context or precondition of the test.
When: Describes the action/event taken by the user or system.
Then: Describes the expected outcome after the action.
And/But: Used to add multiple Given, When, or Then conditions in a scenario.
Scenario Outline: Used to run the same scenario with different sets of data.
Examples: Specifies the test data for the scenario outline.



How Behave Executes the Scenario
When you run Behave, it will:

Read the feature file (e.g., features/login.feature).
Parse each step in the scenario and look for a matching step definition in login_steps.py.
Execute the matched step definition functions one by one.

